By using standardized data templates, we can ensure that all data fed into the app will be processed as intended. Using non-standardized data could result in inaccurate analyses, app crashes, or corrupted report files. Therefore, we strongly recommend all users ensure their data adheres to the provided templates. Use the table below to find the data template and metadata that matches your data type.
You may have to create a copy of your data with some minor changes before feeding the data into the app. For example, if the template calls for a variable to be in meters, but you used feet, you will need to preconvert the column to match. Ensure that the structure, data content, and units of measurement (e.g., feet vs meters) adheres to the template. A detailed metadata is available within each template as well, with a description of each variable, including definition, units of measurement, and rules such as ‘Must be an integer,’ or ‘Must be formatted YYYY-MM-DD.’
Please note that Catch data is a special case. While Catch data have provided templates and metadata, the app is designed to take data directly from SMART exports, as the data were collected in a prestandardized way. Therefore, if you have data that came directly from SMART, it should already standardized, unless the custom SMART package has since deviated. This notice is being posted April 2025.
For complete instructions on using and maintaining the Turneffe Reef-Monitoring Data Reporting Tool, please refer to the Care Manual. Contents include instructions on how to: (1) find and access the App on a TASA work computer, (2) format reef monitoring data to a defined standard that will pass in-app data validation, (3) upload one or more standardized data files to the App, (4) use the App to validate the uploaded data, (5) build and download a customized report using the uploaded data, (6) submit a bug report for the App, (7) access the source code for the App, (8) update the data templates, (9) update the data validation criteria, and (10) update the reporting templates.
For complete documentation of the data validation checks and procedures for the app, please refer to the Data Validation Documentation.Contents include explanation of the three primary data validation activities on user-uploaded data: (1) completeness check, (2) standardization check, and (3) possible errors check, as well as a breakdown of the specific validation rulesets which are used for each data type accepted in-App: (1) Fisheries Catch, (2) Fisher Project Catch, (3) LAMP Conch, (4) LAMP General, (5) SPAG Visual Census, and (6) SPAG Laser.
Data from the Fisher Catch monitoring program includes information about lobster, conch, and finfish catch of fishers at Turneffe Atoll Marine Reserve (TAMR), including key parameters for each catch type. Data were collected using SMART mobile for conservation.
